# Release Notes - v3.0.0

Welcome to version 3.0.0 of the adapter toolkit for App Store Connect!


# Breaking Changes

This a major release and contains a number of breaking changes:


## Dropped support for earlier .NET and ASP.NET Core versions

- .NET Framework versions earlier than 4.8 are no longer supported.

- Support has been removed for .NET 5.0 and earlier. 

- ASP.NET Core hosting libraries require .NET 6.0 or later. This means that running a .NET Framework/ASP.NET Core 2.x adapter host is no longer possible.


## `IntelligentPlant.AppStoreConnect.Adapter.Json` package is now deprecated

The [IntelligentPlant.AppStoreConnect.Adapter.Json](https://www.nuget.org/packages/IntelligentPlant.AppStoreConnect.Adapter.Json) package is now deprecated and will not receive any further updates. Remove this package reference from your projects when upgrading.

Custom JSON converters have either been removed entirely or moved to the [IntelligentPlant.AppStoreConnect.Adapter.Core](https://www.nuget.org/packages/IntelligentPlant.AppStoreConnect.Adapter.Core) package where appropriate.


## `IAdapter` defines new `Started` and `Stopped` events

All adapter implementations that are derived from `AdapterBase<TAdapterOptions>` (or from the new `AdapterCore` class described below) automatically implement these events.


## `AdapterCore` is the new base class for adapter implementations

`AdapterCore` is a new class in the [IntelligentPlant.AppStoreConnect.Adapter.Abstractions](https://www.nuget.org/packages/IntelligentPlant.AppStoreConnect.Adapter.Abstractions) package that acts as the new base class for all `IAdapter` implementations. `AdapterBase<TAdapterOptions>` has been refactored to inherit from `AdapterCore`.

This change was largely made to simplify the implementation of wrapper classes for adapter features (see below).


## All standard adapter features are placed inside a wrapper when registered

When a standard adapter feature implementation is registered with an `AdapterCore`-derived adapter, it is automatically wrapped in an instance of `AdapterFeatureWrapper<TFeature>`, and the wrapper class is registered instead. This allows the wrapper to automatically add telemetry to feature invocations, and to perform actions such as validation of method parameters.

Wrapping of features occurs regardless of whether the feature is implemented directly by the adapter or by a separate provider. When adapters implement features directly, it is therefore important to access the features via the `IAdapter.Features` property (or via an extension method that accesses the property) instead of directly casting the adapter to the feature type.

If you need to access the original, unwrapped feature implementation (for example to call a method that is not defined by a feature interface), you can use the new `Unwrap()` extension method:

More information about this change can be found [here](../writing-an-adapter.md#feature-wrappers).


## `IAdapterExtensionFeature` is deprecated

Extension features (implemented via the `IAdapterExtensionFeature` interface) are deprecated from v3.0.0 onwards. The types used to support extension features will be removed entirely in a future release.

Non-standard adapter functionality is now implemented via the new `ICustomFunctions` feature (see below).


# Non-Breaking Changes

The following non-breaking changes have been introduced:


## New `ICustomFunctions` feature for defining adapter-specific RPC functions

The new `ICustomFunctions` feature replaces extension features from earlier versions of the toolkit. More information about how to use this feature can be found [here](../writing-an-adapter.md#custom-functions-icustomfunctions-feature).


## New `ITagConfiguration` feature for adapter-specific tag management

The new `ITagConfiguration` feature allows adapters to define a stongly-typed JSON schema describing a model for creating or updating a tag for the adapter. HTTP, SignalR and gRPC APIs will automatically validate requests to create or update tags against the adapter's schema.


## Asset model now allows multiple data references per node

Asset model nodes can now define multiple data references per node.


## Sample selection criteria in `PlotHelper` can now be customised

When using `PlotHelper` to assist implementation of `IReadPlotTagValues`, it is now possible to provide your own selection criteria when deciding which samples from a time bucket should be returned.


## HTTP proxy adapter can optionally use SignalR for subscriptions

When connecting to an ASP.NET Core host that is running the v3 HTTP API, the HTTP proxy adapter can optionally use SignalR for subscriptions such as snapshot value changes. A separate SignalR connection is made per distinct subscriber. Support is determined via an API call that does not exist in previous versions of the API.


## HTTP API and client now use `IAsyncEnumerable<T>` for most responses

ASP.NET Core 6.0 and later has built-in support for returning `IAsyncEnumerable<T>` responses, so the HTTP API and client libraries now take advantage of this. The implementation in the client is backwards-compatible with easrlier versions of the API where responses were not streamed/chunked.


## gRPC client and proxy adapter now support .NET Framework via `WinHttpHandler`

The gRPC proxy adapter and client now have .NET Framework 4.8 targets. 

When supplying a gRPC channel on .NET Framework, the channel must be configured to use an `HttpClient` that uses `WinHttpHandler` as its primary message handler to enable the required HTTP/2 support. A package reference to [System.Net.Http.WinHttpHandler](https://www.nuget.org/packages/System.Net.Http.WinHttpHandler) is included in the [IntelligentPlant.AppStoreConnect.Adapter.Grpc.Client](https://www.nuget.org/packages/IntelligentPlant.AppStoreConnect.Adapter.Grpc.Client) package.

Using the gRPC client or proxy adapter on .NET Framework requires Windows 11 or Windows Server 2022 or later. This is a limitation of `WinHttpHandler` itself.


# Upgrading from v2.5.x

- If you are running an ASP.NET Core 3.1 or 5.0 adapter host, you must update it to target .NET 6 or .NET 7.
- If you are running an adapter host that requires .NET Framework, it is no longer possible to use the ASP.NET Core hosting packages as support for ASP.NET Core 2.x has been removed. You can use the [Open API](../../swagger.json) definition file to create a compatible HTTP API.
- Remove any package references to `IntelligentPlant.AppStoreConnect.Adapter.Json` when upgrading.

Other than the breaking changes listed above, upgrading should be a case of simply updating package references to their latest version.
