# Release Notes - v3.1.0

Welcome to version 3.1.0 of the adapter toolkit for App Store Connect!

# Breaking Changes

This release contains the following breaking changes:


## `IKeyValueStore` changes

The [IKeyValueStore](../../src/DataCore.Adapter.Abstractions/Services/IKeyValueStore.cs) service contract has changed: writing and reading values is now performed using generic `WriteAsync<T>(KVKey, T)` and `ReadAsync<T>(KVKey)` methods respectively, instead of writing and reading `byte[]` instances.

The reason for this change is because under the hood, `IKeyValueStore` implementations have been split into those that serialize values on write and deserialize on read and those that do not have to perform serialization (such as `InMemoryKeyValueStore`). The `KeyValueStoreOptions` type has been extended to allow a `JsonSerializerOptions` to be specified to control default (de)serialization behaviour. 

The `KeyValueStoreExtensions.ReadJsonAsync<T>` and `KeyValueStoreExtensions.WriteJsonAsync<T>` extension methods are now marked as deprecated, and no longer perform (de)serialization in the method implementation; this is now delegated to `KeyValueStore` instances instead.

New protected methods have been added to `KeyValueStore` to assist with serialization (and compression) in implementations that need to serialize and deserialize values. `InMemoryKeyValueStore` has been modified so that it no longer performs serialization.


# Non-Breaking Changes

This release includes the following changes and features:


## New package for hosting adapter HTTP APIs as Minimal API routes

A [new package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/IntelligentPlant.AppStoreConnect.Adapter.AspNetCore.MinimalApi) has been introduced for hosting the adapter HTTP APIs using ASP.NET Core's Minimal APIs functionality instead of MVC controllers.

Please note that Minimal API support requires ASP.NET Core 7.0 or higher. If you create an adapter host project from the Visual Studio/`dotnet new` template that targets .NET 7.0 or higher, the project will automatically use the Minimal APIs package instead of the MVC package.

Instructions for updating an existing adapter host project to use Minimal APIs can be found [here](../../src/DataCore.Adapter.AspNetCore.MinimalApi/README.md).


## ASP.NET Core adapter template uses Bootstrap 5.3

The ASP.NET Core adapter host template now uses Bootstrap 5.3 and includes built-in support for light and dark display modes.


## New `IAdapterCallContext<T>` interface

[IAdapterCallContext&lt;T&gt;](../../src/DataCore.Adapter.Abstractions/IAdapterCallContextT.cs) is a new interface that extends `IAdapterCallContext` to expose a `Provider` property of type `T`. 

The [HttpAdapterCallContext](../../src/DataCore.Adapter.AspNetCore.Common/HttpAdapterCallContext.cs) class passed by ASP.NET Core host applications to adapter method invocations has been modified to implement `IAdapterCallContext<HttpContext>`, meaning that hosted adapters are now able to use the `HttpContext` for a caller inside the adapter (for example, in order to pass through authentication details such as a bearer token or X.509 client certificate for the caller to a downstream service used by the adapter).


## Configurable adapter host instance IDs and fixed adapter IDs

The adapter host template project now sets the ID of the hosted adapter to `$default` instead of a GUID generated at project creation time. This allows for easier configuration of the App Store Connect to adapter connection. The adapter ID can still be modified in the same way as before by editing the `Constants.cs` file in projects created using the Visual Studio/`dotnet new` template. 

Additionally, the identifier that the adapter host uses in its OpenTelemetry traces is now set via the project's `appsettings.json` file (or any other configuration source that the project uses). This allows for tracing systems such as Jaeger to distinguish between multiple instances of an adapter host.


# Upgrading from v3.0.0 to 3.1.0

To upgrade from v3.0.0 to v3.1.0, you need to update your adapter toolkit package references to version 3.1.0.

If you have written a custom `IKeyValueStore` implementation you will need to update your implementation to account for changes in the `IKeyValueStore` interface, and `KeyValueStore` and `KeyValueStore<TOptions>` base classes. Use the new `SerializeToBytesAsync`, `SerializeToStreamAsync`, `DeserializeFromBytesAsync` and `DeserializeFromStreamAsync` methods on `KeyValueStore` if your implementation needs to store and retrieve serialized values. If your implementation is derived from `KeyValueStore<TOptions>`, the default compression level and `JsonSerializerOptions` specified in `KeyValueStoreOptions` will be used in (de)serialization operations if the equivalent parameters in the `SerializeToXXX`/`DeserializeFromXXX` methods are not specified. 

If you are using an `IKeyValueStore` in your adapter implementation, you should replace calls to the `KeyValueStoreExtensions.ReadJsonAsync<T>` and `KeyValueStoreExtensions.WriteJsonAsync<T>` extension methods with calls to `IKeyValueStore.ReadAsync<T>` and `IKeyValueStore.WriteAsync<T>` respectively. Additionally, you may wish to set the `KeyValueStoreOptions.JsonOptions` property to customise JSON serialization if you are using the Microsoft FASTER-, file system- or Sqlite-based stores.

If you have installed the adapter host project template for Visual Studio and `dotnet new`, you can upgrade the template to the latest version by running `dotnet new update` from the command line.
