# Release Notes - v4.0.0

Welcome to version 4.0.0 of the adapter toolkit for App Store Connect!


# Breaking Changes

This release contains the following breaking changes:


## `Variant` changes

A new [ByteString](../../src/DataCore.Adapter.Core/Common/ByteString.cs) type has been introduced to represent an immutable byte sequence. The [Variant](../../src/DataCore.Adapter.Core/Common/Variant.cs) type has been extended to provide first-class support for `ByteString` values. As a result of this, `Variant` instances created with `byte[]` values will now automatically convert the value to `ByteString` and set the `Type` property to `VariantType.ByteString`. The `ArrayDimensions` property on a `Variant` created using a `byte[]` is now `null` instead of specifying the dimensions of the original `byte[]`.


## `IKeyValueStore` changes

The [IKeyValueStore](../../src/DataCore.Adapter.Abstractions/Services/IKeyValueStore.cs) service contract has changed: writing and reading values is now performed using generic `WriteAsync<T>(KVKey, T)` and `ReadAsync<T>(KVKey)` methods respectively, instead of writing and reading `byte[]` instances.

The reason for this change is because under the hood, `IKeyValueStore` implementations have been split into those that serialize values on write and deserialize on read and those that do not have to perform serialization (such as `InMemoryKeyValueStore`). The `KeyValueStoreOptions` type has been extended to allow a `JsonSerializerOptions` to be specified to control default (de)serialization behaviour. 

The `KeyValueStoreExtensions.ReadJsonAsync<T>` and `KeyValueStoreExtensions.WriteJsonAsync<T>` extension methods are now marked as deprecated, and no longer perform (de)serialization in the method implementation; this is now delegated to `KeyValueStore` instances instead.

New protected methods have been added to `KeyValueStore` to assist with serialization (and compression) in implementations that need to serialize and deserialize values. `InMemoryKeyValueStore` has been modified so that it no longer performs serialization.


## `DefaultDataFunctions` has moved

The [DefaultDataFunctions](../../src/DataCore.Adapter/RealTimeData/DefaultDataFunctions.cs) class has moved from the `IntelligentPlant.AppStoreConnect.Adapter.Abstractions` package to the `IntelligentPlant.AppStoreConnect.Adapter` package.


## `TagValueBucket` changes

The [TagValueBucket](../../src/DataCore.Adapter/RealTimeData/Utilities/TagValueBucket.cs) type used by the [AggregationHelper](../../src/DataCore.Adapter/RealTimeData/Utilities/AggregationHelper.cs) class has changed to assist with the calculation of time-weighted aggregates. The `StartBoundary` and `EndBoundary` properties have been removed and new `BeforeStartBoundary`, `AfterStartBoundary`, `BeforeEndBoundary` and `AfterEndBoundary` properties have been added.

Custom aggregate functions registered with `AggregationHelper` may need to be rewritten to account for these changes.


## `TagValueBuilder` changes

The [TagValueBuilder](../../src/DataCore.Adapter/RealTimeData/TagValueBuilder.cs) class has been modified so that most methods for adding properties to a tag value have been moved to extension methods. No changes to source code are required, but code must be recompiled to prevent binary incompatibilities.


## Logging changes in `AdapterCore` and `AdapterBase<TOptions>`

The [AdapterCore](../../src/DataCore.Adapter.Abstractions/AdapterCore.cs) base class now requires an `ILoggerFactory` constructor parameter instead of an `ILogger` parameter and its `Logger` property has been deprecated in favour of creating `ILogger` instances using the new `LoggerFactory` property instead.

The [AdapterBase<TOptions>](../../src/DataCore.Adapter/AdapterBaseT.cs) base class has new constructors that accept `ILoggerFactory` instead of `ILogger`. The existing constructors are still available but are now marked as deprecated.

`AdapterCore` has new `BeginLoggerScope` methods that can be used to create logger scopes with state information that includes the ID of an adapter. This is useful when implementing helper classes that provide features for an adapter.


## Logging changes in helper classes

The constructors for the following helper classes have changed and now require either typed `ILogger<T>` instances or an `ILoggerFactory` to be specified instead of a plain `ILogger`:

* [ConfigurationChanges](../../src/DataCore.Adapter/Diagnostics/ConfigurationChanges.cs)
* [CustomFunctions](../../src/DataCore.Adapter/Extensions/CustomFunctions.cs)
* [EventMessagePush](../../src/DataCore.Adapter/Events/EventMessagePush.cs)
* [EventMessagePushWithTopics](../../src/DataCore.Adapter/Events/EventMessagePushWithTopics.cs)
* [InMemoryEventMessageStore](../../src/DataCore.Adapter/Events/InMemoryEventMessageStore.cs)
* [HealthCheckManager](../../src/DataCore.Adapter/Diagnostics/HealthCheckManager.cs)
* [PollingSnapshotTagValuePush](../../src/DataCore.Adapter/RealTimeData/PollingSnapshotTagValuePush.cs)
* [SnapshotTagValueManager](../../src/DataCore.Adapter/RealTimeData/SnapshotTagValueManager.cs)
* [SnapshotTagValuePush](../../src/DataCore.Adapter/RealTimeData/SnapshotTagValuePush.cs)
* [SnapshotTagValuePushBase](../../src/DataCore.Adapter/RealTimeData/SnapshotTagValuePushBase.cs)
* [TagManager](../../src/DataCore.Adapter/Tags/TagManager.cs)


## Logging changes in built-in adapter types

The constructors for the following built-in adapters have changed to accept `ILoggerFactory` instead of `ILogger<T>`: 

* CSV
* Wave generator
* HTTP proxy
* gRPC proxy
* SignalR proxy 


# Non-Breaking Changes

This release includes the following changes and features:


## New package for hosting adapter HTTP APIs as Minimal API routes

A [new package](https://www.nuget.org/packages/IntelligentPlant.AppStoreConnect.Adapter.AspNetCore.MinimalApi) has been introduced for hosting the adapter HTTP APIs using ASP.NET Core's Minimal APIs functionality instead of MVC controllers.

Please note that Minimal API support requires ASP.NET Core 8.0 or higher. If you create an adapter host project from the Visual Studio/`dotnet new` template that targets .NET 8.0 or higher, the project will automatically use the Minimal APIs package instead of the MVC package.

Instructions for updating an existing adapter host project to use Minimal APIs can be found [here](../../src/DataCore.Adapter.AspNetCore.MinimalApi/README.md).


## ASP.NET Core adapter template uses Bootstrap 5.3

The ASP.NET Core adapter host template now uses Bootstrap 5.3 and includes built-in support for light and dark display modes.


## New `IAdapterCallContext<T>` interface

[IAdapterCallContext&lt;T&gt;](../../src/DataCore.Adapter.Abstractions/IAdapterCallContextT.cs) is a new interface that extends `IAdapterCallContext` to expose a `Provider` property of type `T`. 

The [HttpAdapterCallContext](../../src/DataCore.Adapter.AspNetCore.Common/HttpAdapterCallContext.cs) class passed by ASP.NET Core host applications to adapter method invocations has been modified to implement `IAdapterCallContext<HttpContext>`, meaning that hosted adapters are now able to use the `HttpContext` for a caller inside the adapter (for example, in order to pass through authentication details such as a bearer token or X.509 client certificate for the caller to a downstream service used by the adapter).


## Configurable adapter host instance IDs and fixed adapter IDs

The adapter host template project now sets the ID of the hosted adapter to `$default` instead of a GUID generated at project creation time. This allows for easier configuration of the App Store Connect to adapter connection. The adapter ID can still be modified in the same way as before by editing the `Constants.cs` file in projects created using the Visual Studio/`dotnet new` template. 

Additionally, the identifier that the adapter host uses in its OpenTelemetry traces is now set via the project's `appsettings.json` file (or any other configuration source that the project uses). This allows for tracing systems such as Jaeger to distinguish between multiple instances of an adapter host.


## Full gRPC support on .NET Framework on Windows 11

The gRPC implementation used in the gRPC Proxy Adapter on .NET Framework relies on the HTTP/2 implementation supplied by the underlying WinHTTP library. Prior to Windows 11, gRPC clients on .NET Framework did not support client- or bidirectional streaming. Adapter host methods such as snapshot tag value subscriptions rely on being able to add tags to and remove tags from active subscriptions, which uses bidirectional streaming in the gRPC interface implementation. On .NET Framework, clients worked around this limitation by making separate subscription calls for each tag. In version 4.0, the gRPC adapter proxy now detects the underlying Windows version when it is running on .NET Framework and will use bidirectional streaming if it is supported by the OS.

Note that Windows Server 2019 and Windows Server 2022 do not have full gRPC support at this time.


# Upgrading from v3.0.0 to 4.0.0

To upgrade from v3.0.0 to v4.0.0, you need to update your adapter toolkit package references to version 4.0.0.

Your adapter implementations should be updated to use the `AdapterBase<TOptions>` constructors that accept an `ILoggerFactory` instead of an `ILogger`. The constructors that use `ILogger` will be removed in version 5.

When constructing adapter feature helper classes, use the `LoggerFactory` property inherited from `AdapterCore` to create strongly-typed `ILogger<T>` instances for the helper.

If your adapter returns data values constructed with `byte[]` values, note that the `Variant` type will now convert these values to `ByteString` internally.

If you have written a custom `IKeyValueStore` implementation you will need to update your implementation to account for changes in the `IKeyValueStore` interface, and `KeyValueStore` and `KeyValueStore<TOptions>` base classes. Use the new `SerializeToBytesAsync`, `SerializeToStreamAsync`, `DeserializeFromBytesAsync` and `DeserializeFromStreamAsync` methods on `KeyValueStore` if your implementation needs to store and retrieve serialized values. If your implementation is derived from `KeyValueStore<TOptions>`, the default compression level and `JsonSerializerOptions` specified in `KeyValueStoreOptions` will be used in (de)serialization operations if the equivalent parameters in the `SerializeToXXX`/`DeserializeFromXXX` methods are not specified. 

If you are using an `IKeyValueStore` in your adapter implementation, you should replace calls to the `KeyValueStoreExtensions.ReadJsonAsync<T>` and `KeyValueStoreExtensions.WriteJsonAsync<T>` extension methods with calls to `IKeyValueStore.ReadAsync<T>` and `IKeyValueStore.WriteAsync<T>` respectively. Additionally, you may wish to set the `KeyValueStoreOptions.JsonOptions` property to customise JSON serialization if you are using the Microsoft FASTER-, file system- or Sqlite-based stores.

Custom aggregate functions registered with the `AggregationHelper` class may need to be rewritten to account for the changes to the `TagValueBucket` type.

If you have installed the adapter host project template for Visual Studio and `dotnet new`, you can upgrade the template to the latest version by running `dotnet new update` from the command line.
