# Release Notes - v5.0.0

Welcome to version 5.0.0 of the adapter toolkit for App Store Connect!


# Breaking Changes

This release contains the following breaking changes:


## Changes to Entity Builder Types

Types such as `TagValueBuilder` that are used to construct adapter entities using a fluent interface have been refactored to derive from a common base type, `AdapterEntityBuilder<T>`. The base type defines some common behaviour such as management of custom `AdapterProperty` properties added to the builder.

Duplicate properties can no longer be defined on any builder derived from `AdapterEntityBuilder<T>`. Instead, callers can choose whether existing properties with the same name should be retained or dropped when adding properties to the builder.

Note that `AdapterEntityBuilder<T>` does not define any public methods for adding properties to the builder; these are instead provided by extension methods defined on the `AdapterEntityBuilderExtensions` class.


## Hash Code Computation in `TagIdentifierComparer`

The hash code computation in `TagIdentifierComparer` has been modified to remove unnecessary allocations. A side effect of this change is that the hash code computed for a given `TagIdentifier` is now different.


# Non-Breaking Changes

This release includes the following changes and features:


## String Caching

The new `StringCache` class is now used to cache frequently-used string instances instead of using `string.Intern` directly. `StringCache` uses a `ConcurrentDictionary<string, string>` to cache string instances; benchmarks show that this usually gives superior performance compared to `string.Intern`. `StringCache` can be configured to use `string.Intern` instead of its own cache by setting the `DataCore.Adapter.StringCache.UseNativeIntern` flag on `AppContext` to `false`.

Additionally, new `string` extension methods have been added in the `System` namespace to allow strings to be interned easily using `StringCache`:

* `InternToStringCache` will intern the string if it has not already been interned and returns the interned reference to the string e.g. `var str = "my string".InternToStringCache();`
* `GetFromStringCache` returns the interned reference to the string or `null` if the string has not been interned e.g. `var str = "my other string".GetFromStringCache();`


## Template Changes

The `dotnet new` template has been modified:

* The template no longer uses Serilog for logging and instead reverts to the standard Microsoft.Extensions.Logging library. Developers are free to add additional logging providers to the application as required.
* An OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP) exporter is now enabled by default for exporting traces. The exporter endpoint and the signals to be exported (i.e. traces, logs, metrics) can be configured using the `appsettings.json` file.
